# Gephi
## Old Assyrian Social Network graphs in Gephi
## (the following paragraphs are quoted from Anderson (2017 dissertation) The Old Assyrian Social Network)

A supervised attestation network, curated by Adam Anderson (UCB, DH/NES) and generated in collaboration with computer scientists Dr. Noah Smith (UW, CSE), Dr. David Bamman (UCB, I-school), and Alex Storer (Stanford) with support from Harvard’s Data Science Services (IQSS/DSS), and UC Berkeley (DH & D-Lab).

The attestation network was conceived as a type of control group, populated with the nodes and edges from all the texts in the Old Assyrian Text Project (OATP) relational database, shared with me in 2011. By adding weighted edges for the entities from the letters, we make a two-mode network (2.0) which initially was without any form of disambiguation, i.e. no nodes were merged in the initial stage (Fig. 1.2.1). This allowed the graph to display the generated rank data for each of the nodes from the letters, as well as the additional variables such as text IDs, dates and patronymics. Then, using version control, I began a supervised disambiguation within this network; merging the nodes which correspond to a single entity. This process is similar to deduplication, in that I try to identify a multidimensional entity (i.e., one with many variables) based on the content and context of the OA texts from transliterations in the OATP. In doing so I was able to test the accuracy of the unsupervised disambiguation in the epistolary network (1.0) as each merger produced new dossiers and cliques in the attestation network (2.0).

Using these related datasets, I constructed name catalogues, or onomastica, and linked these to each attested name across the OA texts. This ensures that variations in spelling are accounted for, and not generating superfluous new names. These textual attestations are then used to populate a network database (Gephi), and to group and merge the homonymous nodes in the attestation network, when I can be certain that they attest to the same entity (not just the same name, esp. due to papponymy). Naturally, this process requires a significant amount of data curation, which comes from ‘close readings’ of the textual context, including: any familial indicators (i.e. patronymics, marriages, clans), the cliques and cohorts of each entity, their roles and activities associated with each entity, and any other contextual clues the texts may provide (i.e. sealings, sign usage or scribal hands). All of these aspects are then added as ‘attributes’ for each of the ca. 20,000 nodes in the attestation network. Geospatial coordinates are also added for the nodes representing geographical names, toponyms, and houses in Kültepe-Kanesh.
