# Gephi
Ancient Near Eastern network graphs (in Gephi file format)

## Old Assyrian Networks
[The Old Assyrian Social Network](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/335703724_The_Old_Assyrian_Social_Network_an_analysis_of_the_text_from_Kultepe-Kanesh_1950-1750_BCE), combines classical philological methods with natural language processing and social network analysis, to disambiguate the actors, cliques and groups found in a text corpus of 6,000 cuneiform tablets.
### The following 5 files are the results of a dissertation research project (please cite accordingly): Adam G. Anderson, "The Old Assyrian Social Network: an analysis of the texts from Kültepe-Kaneš (1950-1750 B.C.E.)" Harvard University, 2018.
* AttestationNetwork (2018) : Generated from historical cuneiform texts (6k "Cappadocian" texts 1950-1750 BC) dataset courtesy of the Old Assyrian Text Project (OATP).
* OASN 1.2 (2018): an epistolary network (ca. 3k nodes) via unsupervised disambiguation. This network contains rank distributions which represent the hierarchy exhibited in the introduciton of each letter, and is the result of a collaborative work by [Bamman, Anderson and Smith](https://arxiv.org/abs/1303.2873). The network represents the Proper Names (PN) found within 2k letters dating betwen ca. 1950-1750 B.C.E.. The dataset was provided to me by Thomas Hertel and Mogens Larsen as the result of the Old Assyrian Text Project (OATP). 
* ComentionNetwork (2018) by David Bamman (@dbamman): a subset of the graph OASN 1.2 network, in which nodes are retained if >10 co-mentions are found across the documents.
* Salim-AssurArchive 2.5 (2018) : an attestation network via supervised disambiguation and close readings. This network disambiguation is still in progress, but shared openly for scholarly collaboration.
* OASN 2.6gf (2020) : a multi-modal network derived from the AttestationNetwork, which includes geocoordinates for ca. 40 geographical names, and attributes for documented females. 

## Sumerian Networks
This [UC Berkeley Data Science Discovery Project](http://dh.berkeley.edu/sumerian-networks-reconstructing-ur-iii) works in harmony with the online databases of Ur III texts (BDTNS, ORACC & CDLI), in order to build network graphs which contain the roles and titles of each named entity within their social, institutional, geographical, and temporal substrates. These networks of micro-economic transactions are measured statistically, leveraging mathematical formalization and geo-spatialization for macro-economic models. These results provide a map of the social-spatial distances of the individuals and locations of otherwise unknown names in the historical annals of the Ur III texts. The combination of these elements has enabled the progress toward unsupervised disambiguation of the Ur III prosopography, which in turn reveals latent organizational structures, resulting from the sum of individual actors, institutions, and geographic names, when modeled both spatially and temporally. The repository for the ongoing research is hosted on GitHub with [Jupyter Notebooks](https://github.com/niekveldhuis/Sumerian-network) and [Network Graphs](https://github.com/admndrsn/Gephi).
### The Drehem graph files are the preliminary results of network analysis used as a prosopographical disambiguation method for the ca. 15,000 Sumerian Ur III texts (ca. 2100-2000 bce), which have been attributed to the province of Drehem, ancient Puzriš-Dagan. The python jupyter notebooks are maintained at [Sumerian-Network](https://github.com/niekveldhuis/Sumerian-network) courtesy of Niek Veldhuis.
* Drehem_01 : the first iteration (2017) of the network of merged personal names from the texts, a dynamic network, in two file formats. Edge directionality was determined by explicit markers for the roles in the texts (e.g. 'source' (ki-PN-ta), 'target' (PN šu ba-ti), etc.), for more details see the [Sumerian-Network](https://github.com/niekveldhuis/Sumerian-network) repository. 
* Drehem_082t : includes the eighth+ iteration (2018) of the merged network, a dynamic network with a time interval corresponding to the Ur III dates on each tablet.
* Drehem_08GN : the eighth iteration (2018-2019) includes a geographical network, with ca. 350 nodes representing attested Geographic Names (GN). The geo-coordinates can be found at [AWOL Pedersen](http://ancientworldonline.blogspot.com/2011/07/ane-placemarks-for-google-earth.html).
